I wanna talk through
some possible solutions.
So here's the image.js
file when it loads up.
And here's this getSubImages,
which I have just used
and here's where
the program really starts.
At the moment,
we have remember we talked about how
we do problem solving observables?
We take the streams that we have and then
we try and figure out how to transform
them, like we did in the previous example,
into the stream that we want.
Before we do that, we have to figure
out what are the streams we want?
What were the streams I would need for
an application like this?
The ones that I wanna create,
not the ones that I have.
In this particular context,
I just wanna create a stream of all the
images to display, that's all I wanna do.
Whenever it fires an image, I'm just
gonna display that image in my image done
placeholder, and that's all I wanna do.
I wanna create a stream
of images to display.
Now what images come out of that scream
is gonna be halfway dependent on,
whether the user presses the back
button or the next button and
which sub image they're on etc.
So I basically have to take all those
possible inputs of back and next, and
sub render it and network response, and
I somehow have to co-list them into
just one stream of images to display,
makes sense?
And I'm also going to put
in this actions observable.
As in whenever the user
performs any action,
I'm actually just gonna display this
loading icon that I have onscreen that's
gonna sit right on top of the image.
And then once the image is loaded,
I'm going to hide that loading icon,
is everybody see that?
So whenever I display an image I
just hide the loading icon, and
whenever the user initiates any action at
all, I display the loading icon, like so,
does that make sense?
So our job is to, right now I've just put
on a placeholder here for actions and
systems Observable.empty.
But basically we want actions to fires
whenever the users presses left,
right, or picks sub.
And furthermore, we want images to fire
whenever we have a new image to display
based on what images are available and
what buttons the user clicked,
does that make sense?
So first of all, what streams do
we have to construct images with?
So if we look up at the top of our
program we have five DOM elements.
We have the next, a back,
a sub, which is a select box.
So the currently selected option
in that sub is the thing we wanna
pull the data for.
And we have image, which is a DOM element
where we're gonna display when it changed
a source of that image to display
the currently visible image.
And finally, we have this loading image,
which we're just simply gonna hide and
show depending on what's going on.
So what are the interesting
events that make up images?
>> Sub selection?.
>> Sub selection, absolutely.
Let's create a sub selection.
Okay, how am I gonna get
the subs that are selected?
>> fromEvent Observable?
>> Yeah, I can use fromEvent.
We wrote that earlier, remember?
I pass in sub and
I think it's just change.
But that's gonna give me event
objects that happened in the onChange.
I do actually want the value
inside of the option though.
So, how am I going to get it?
>> Map the event.
>> Yeah, I could map the event.
Maybe it's target.value, I don't know.
Let's try it and find out.
So, if I wanna know what
an observable is gonna give me,
how can I find out what data's inside?
>> Subscribe to it.
>> Yeah, subscribe to it.
So I'll subscribe to it.
I have no idea if it's gonna work but
let's try it.
Okay, awesome, first try.
All right, so
did everybody see what I did there.
I changed the select box and then my
observable fired the new thing that was
selected, which in this case is queued.
I'll switch back to pics, so, cool.
And it's that easy to take the select
box and turn it into a stream of all
of the future values that will ever be
selected inside of that select box.
Okay, now we're cooking.
So we have a stream of all the subs, what
are the other streams we're interested in?
>> Next and back buttons?
>> Yeah, the next and back buttons.
So we'll notice a little pattern here
where I take a singular DOM element.
And then I create a plural stream
of events off of that DOM element.
So I'm going to go to nexts, and,
Looks like it's nextButton
instead of select.
How did that even work?
It's actually subSelect, but
apparently the browser or
anything with an ID it just
creates that in the scope.
Cuz I put in sub instead of subSelect,
but I'm assuming what happened is that
the browser anything you give
an ID it just places in scope.
So that shouldn't have worked, but or
I didn't expect it to work but it did.
And likewise here I'm gonna put
a nextButton and backButton.
Cool, any ideas about what to do next?
Remember that we're trying to build
two streams, the stream of all
the images to display, and the stream
of all the actions the user performs.
When the user performs an action,
what do we wanna do immediately to
give them feedback so
that they that something's happening.
Yeah, we want to show a loading image,
right?
So inside of it we had
an actions observable.
Do we have everything we need
to make the actions observable?
All right,
when do we wanna display loading?
When they switch a sub, when they click
next, or when they click back, right?
So I think we actually have everything
we need right now to create actions.
How are we gonna do it?
>> Concatenate the three Observables and
then display the loader,
subscribe to that and spread the loader.
>> So I'll settle this placeholder
right now, action's empty,
I'm just gonna go subs, Like that?
Is that the idea?
Who thinks that's the right thing to do?
>> So
should we use was it switch all instead
of concat for so that they cancelled?
It takes the latest or is that?
>> Well in this case, so
switch latest, merge all, and
concat all operate on streams of streams.
In this case,
we actually just have three streams.
And so the only functions available
to us are observable.merge and
observable.concat, does that make sense?
>> Yeah
>> So
who feels like this is
the right way of doing it?
Of getting-
>> Merge would be better because subs,
next, and
back aren't going to complete ever.
>> Right, it is generally a bad idea to
concatenate infinite streams together.
You will never get to the second stream,
right?
Is that clear to everyone, why I will
never ever get to next or backs?
It's because concat, which we all know,
cuz we implemented it,
will only move onto next and
backs when it gets a complete from subs.
We can solve that problem by using merge,
I think that just might be the answer.
The actions,
we're moving rather quickly here,
I'm gonna have to come up with
new problems, let's check it out.
What should happen is if I change
any of these variables we should see
loading, cool.
By the way, these are public domain
images, I'm sorry, they're ugly, but
that's the best I could come up
with on short notice, so, great.
That worked.
So we're actually halfway there,
if you divide this into two observables,
we're actually only like 5% there.
The other one's the hard part,
so let's tackle that one.